Muzaffarpur Hospital ICU Fire: IMA demands revocation of hospital licence suspension
Date published: 2026-06-09T12:11:27+05:30
Author: Kajal Rajput
Description: Muzaffarpur: Following the suspension of Prasad Hospital's registration and the arrest of the three staff members after a fire claimed six lives, the Muzaffarpur chapter of the Indian Medical...

Muzaffarpur: Following the suspension of Prasad Hospital's registration and the arrest of the three staff members after a fire claimed six lives, t he Muzaffarpur chapter of the Indian Medical Association ( IMA ) has termed the action ''unconstitutional'' and demanded its immediate revocation.

The decision was taken during a general body meeting held at the IMA Hall here on Saturday.

"The civil surgeon's decision to suspend the hospital's registration without seeking an explanation from the management is unconstitutional. We demand its immediate reversal," a statement by IMA Muzaffarpur on Sunday read, news agency PTI reported.

Also Read:Prasad Hospitals performs TAVI Procedure to repair heart valve in 79-year-old patient

The medical body also sought the withdrawal of administrative action against the doctor in-charge of the ICU, and warned of agitation if its demands were not met.

Medical Dialogues had earlier reported that following a devastating fire in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of Prasad Hospital in Muzaffarpur that claimed six lives, authorities have suspended the hospital’s licence and issued a show-cause notice to the management, seeking a response within seven days. District health authorities took the action after an initial assessment pointed to possible lapses in safety measures and alleged negligence by the hospital administration.

Following the fire incident at the hospital, which claimed seven lives, police arrested three staff members on Friday for negligence.

According to the statement, members of IMA Muzaffarpur questioned the arrest and demanded action against officials responsible for arresting him.

They demanded an immediate halt to the "punitive action" against the doctor.

The IMA urged authorities to allow all departments of Prasad Hospital, except the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), to resume operations to minimise inconvenience to patients and the general public, reports PTI.

The association warned that if its demands were not fulfilled within a week, IMA Muzaffarpur would launch an agitation and take up the issue with support from the state unit.

Also Read:4 killed in Bihar's Muzaffarpur hospital ICU fire
