URL: https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/c725dxwdx19o
Publication: BBC News
Title: Hathras stampede: Event organiser surrenders to police

The incident in Uttar Pradesh state last week is one of the deadliest such disasters in the country in more than a decade.

Nearly all those killed were women and children who were attending the satsang - a Hindu religious gathering.

Chaos broke out at the end of the event as many in the crowd rushed towards the preacher leading the overcrowded congregation as he was about to leave in his car.

The tragedy has sparked outrage in India, leading to questions about lapses in safety measures and crowd management.

On Thursday, police said they had arrested six people who were part of a group that organised the event in Hathras district.

On Friday night, police said they had arrested Devprakash Madhukar, the main organiser of the event, in the Najafgarh area of the capital, Delhi, and handed him over to police in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh state.

However, AP Singh, a lawyer for the preacher Bhole Baba who led the congregation, later said Mr Madhukar had surrendered to the police.

"We told you that we would surrender Devprakash Madhukar, take him in front of the police, interrogate him, participate in the investigation, and take part in the inquiry," he told ANI news agency.

"We have handed him over to the special investigation team and the Uttar Pradesh police. Now a thorough investigation can be done."

Mr Madhukar was produced before a local court and sent to 14 days in judicial custody.

He is a key suspect in the police complaint and is facing charges of attempted culpable homicide.

The complaint said officials had given permission for 80,000 people to gather, but some 250,000 people turned up to the event.

The police report says thousands of devotees ran towards the preacher's vehicle as he was leaving and began collecting dust from the path in an act of devotion.

Mr Singh, however, denied blame and told the BBC the crush occurred "due to some anti-social elements". He blamed a "criminal conspiracy hatched against" his client.

He also denied reports that security guards at the festival had triggered panic by pushing away people who tried to get Bhole Baba's blessing.

A three-member judicial inquiry commission has been established to investigate the incident.

Home News Football 2026 Business Technology Health Culture Arts Travel Earth Sport Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages The BBC is in multiple languages Read the BBC In your own language BBC News Brasil BBC News Mundo (Spanish) BBC News မြန်မာ (Burmese) BBC News 中文 (Chinese) BBC News Indonesia BBC News 코리아 (Korean) BBC News ไทย (Thai) BBC News Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese) BBC News Azərbaycanca (Azeri) BBC News Кыргыз Кызматы (Kyrgyz) BBC News Polska (Polish) BBC News Русская служба (Russian) BBC News na srpskom (Serbian) BBC News Україна (Ukrainian) BBC News O'zbek (Uzbek) BBC News عربي (Arabic) BBC News فارسی (Persian) BBC News Türkçe (Turkish) BBC News বাংলা (Bengali) BBC News دری (Dari) BBC News ગુજરાતી (Gujarati) BBC News हिन्दी (Hindi) BBC News मराठी (Marathi) BBC News नेपाली (Nepali) BBC News සිංහල (Sinhala) BBC News ਪੰਜਾਬੀ (Punjabi) BBC News Afaan Oromoo BBC News አማርኛ (Amharic) BBC News Afrique (French) BBC News Hausa Gaelic NAIDHEACHDAN BBC News Ìgbò Japanese 日本語 BBC News Gahuza Kirundi KIRUNDI BBC News Pidgin BBC News Somali BBC News Swahili BBC News தமிழ் (Tamil) BBC News తెలుగు (Telugu) BBC News ትግርኛ (Tigrinya) BBC News اردو (Urdu) BBC News Yorùbá Follow BBC on: Terms of Use Subscription Terms About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info BBC.com Help & FAQs Content Index Set Preferred Source Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
