Source name: The Indian Express
Source URL: https://indianexpress.com/article/india/bhopal-gas-tragedy-union-carbide-waste-10097838/
Fetched at: 2026-06-07 11:46:34 IST

Title: Months after it was moved away from Bhopal, incineration of 337 tonnes of Union Carbide waste ends | India News - The Indian Express
Meta description: More than 40 years after the Bhopal gas tragedy, the process of relocating the toxic waste from Bhopal's Union Carbide factory began on January 1, when 12 containers carrying 337 metric tonnes of hazardous waste left for a private disposal plant in Pithampur run by the firm Re Sustainability.

Paragraphs:
[1] Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation director Swatantra Kumar Singh told The Indian Express , “The pollution board officials have informed us that all the waste has been disposed of as per protocol.”
[2] More than 40 years after the Bhopal gas tragedy, the process of relocating the toxic waste from Bhopal’s Union Carbide factory began on January 1, when 12 containers carrying 337 metric tonnes of hazardous waste left for a private disposal plant in Pithampur run by the firm Re Sustainability.
[3] This came after the Madhya Pradesh High Court on December 3 set a four-week deadline for the authorities to dispose of the waste. On December 5, the HC pulled up the state government over the lack of progress, observing that the authorities were “still in a state of inertia despite 40 years” having gone by.
[4] While 30 tonnes of waste had been incinerated until March 13, the process of burning the rest at the disposal plant began around 7:45 pm on May 5 and ended on the intervening night of June 29-30 at 1 am, officials said.
[5] As per protocol, the ash and other residue left after burning the waste were safely packed in sacks and stored in a leak-proof shed at the plant.
[6] Special landfill cells were being constructed to bury the residue in the ground, and this work is expected to be completed by November. “The entire disposal was carried out as per established safety standards. The emission of different gases and particles from the Pithampur plant was monitored on a real-time basis by an online mechanism, and all the emissions were found to be within the standard limits,” said a state pollution control board officer.
[7] Protests against the disposal of toxic waste had broken out in Pithampur at the beginning of this year, with two men also attempting to self-immolate. The Indore district officials had assured locals in multiple meetings about the safety standards and the need to carry out the disposal due to court orders.
[8] “So far, we have not received any adverse complaints. We will continue monitoring the site as we dispose of the remaining residue in the landfill site,” said an official.
[9] Shrinivas Dwivedi, regional director of the Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board, told The Indian Express that the waste was incinerated at the rate of 270 kg/hour from May 5 onwards, with a break of two days to undertake a cleaning process for the incinerator.
[10] “About 19 metric tonnes of waste in the form of soil and sundry materials such as bags is left, and that, too, would be incinerated by July 3,” Dwivedi told The Indian Express.
[11] Between the end of the trial run and May 5, MPPCB installed a small machine to blend and mix the waste with reagents, installed a mercury emissions sensor, and two continuous ambient air quality monitoring systems, Dwivedi said.
